Hi, I'm Vicki Murley,
the Safari Technologies Evangelist.
In this video,
you'll learn how to integrate web
content into your native iPhone
application using UIWebView.
And I'll show you how to optimize
that web content to fine-tune
your web-based animations,
improve responsiveness,
and reduce the total memory
footprint for your application.
So let's get started.
So we're talking today about how
to integrate web content into
a native iPhone application.
Many people call this type of
application a hybrid application,
one that combines native APIs from
the iPhone SDK with HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript.
So there are quite a few advantages
to developing a hybrid application.
And the first comes if web is
sort of your primary business.
If you are an Amazon.com, a Fandango.com,
or a Yelp.com,
you can leverage the existing
assets that you use to develop your
website in your iPhone application.
And by assets, I mean the code that you
use for your website,
the images,
and also the skills that people
have used to develop your website.
With a hybrid application,
you can also update the
user interface remotely.
The iTunes Music Store is
a great example of this.
The iTunes Music Store uses WebKit,
and we update the user interface here
multiple times each day without having
to ship a new version of iTunes.
GarageBand is another example of this.
We sell these lessons in
line in the application,
again updating the content remotely.
The final advantage of a hybrid
application is being able to list
your application on the App Store.
You may have a great web
application out there,
but currently the App Store is
native iPhone SDK applications only.
So if you want to list your
application on the App Store,
you have to move to a native app.
So the primary class that hybrid
applications are built around
on iPhone SDK is UIWebView.
Now UIWebView is just a simple class
intended to display web content.
I want to take this opportunity to point
out that UIWebView and Safari on iPhone
are not designed to be equivalent.
While UIWebView is a simple class,
Safari on iPhone is an application that
includes a lot of extra functionality
to handle multiple windows,
multiple tabs, authentication, etc.
So these two are not
designed to be equal.
For today's discussion,
we're going to split our
lecture into two parts.
For the first part of the talk,
we're going to focus on how to use
UIWebView within the iPhone SDK.
Since it's a relatively small
class with not a lot of methods,
I'm going to cover some of the most
commonly asked questions about UIWebView.
For the second half of the talk,
we're going to talk about
the content inside the view,
namely how to optimize that
content for a reduced memory
footprint and optimal performance.
So let's get started addressing some
of the most commonly asked questions
about UIWebView in the iPhone SDK.
So the first most commonly asked question
I hear about UIWebView is how to load
resources from the application bundle.
We all know that you can
load a URL into UIWebView,
but sometimes you want to load a
file locally to avoid having to
fetch resources over the network.
So this is really easy to do.
Basically, in the load view method,
you just want to create a path based
off the main bundle of NSBundle.
And here I'm looking for a file
named index with the extension HTML.
We're going to create an NSData object
with the contents of that file path.
And then finally,
we're going to load that
data into the WebView,
and here we have a
MIME type of text HTML set.
The encoding is UTF-8,
and we've set a base URL that
is equal to our initial path.
This base URL is very important to
ensure that any locally stored images
or other resources also load along
with your local index.html file.
So we just talked about how to load
a local index.html file from our
application bundle into UIWebView.
But you can actually load a mixture
of local and remote resources.
So for example, you could use local or
remote images in local HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript.
Just use either a relative URL to
reference local images or a absolute
URL to reference remote images.
However, you can only use remote
images from remote HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript.
In other words,
remote resources cannot load
files from the application bundle.
So here's an example.
I've loaded my index.html file,
and that file links to
this external style sheet,
main.css.
And in main.css,
I have a style declaration
for a title box.
In this declaration,
I'm referencing an image here,
background.jpg.
Now since main.css is a remote file,
background.jpg has to be
stored on the remote server.
What if I want to load background.jpg
from the application bundle?
Well, this is possible if I move the
background image style into an
inline style in my index.html file.
I can leave the height, width,
and border properties in the remote file,
but by moving the background
image property to a local
inline style within my HTML,
this background.jpg will now
load from the application bundle.
The second set of questions
that I commonly hear about
UIWebView center around memory use.
The first is, how can I decrease overall
memory usage in my hybrid
application that uses UIWebView?
The first thing that you can do is
a design decision made up front,
and that's minimizing the
total number of UIWebViews.
Instead of having multiple
UIWebViews on a screen,
you can have a single UIWebView and
then use XMLHttpRequest to
update parts of that page.
Another technique is to build views
off-screen and then animate them in.
We see this everywhere on iPhone and
many popular applications where a panel
slides in to replace the current panel.
You can use the same technique
in your web code to minimize
the total number of UIWebViews.
Dashcode has some really great
built-in templates if you're
looking to explore this technique.
The next memory-centric question that
I typically hear is what can I do
when I get a low memory notification?
So as you may have noticed,
UI WebView does not have any
methods that enable sort of
fine-grained cache control.
But there is one thing that you
can do in your web code when you
get a low memory notification,
and that is set your
JavaScript objects to null.
Of course, structure your code so that
these can be reinitialized,
and what's going to happen
when you do this is the garbage
collector will come along,
clean up all of these nulled objects,
and free up some memory
for your application.
question that I commonly
hear about UI WebView is what
to do about authentication.
So there's two ways to handle
authentication scenarios.
The first is to embed the authorization
information in the URL that you
fetch and load into the UI WebView.
And here we're loading a URL.
It has an HTTPS prefix.
We're setting a username and a
password separated by a colon,
and we're loading the web
page myprotectedsite.com.
So this will just load the web page
into the UIWebView without prompting
the user for any credentials.
If you do want to present
a UI for authentication,
what you're going to do is
open a separate URL connection
using the NSURL APIs.
This is separate from the load that
you would do into the UIWebView.
When your delegate is notified
"Connection did receive authentication
challenge," you're going to
store the credentials using
NSURLCredential Persistence for Session.
And this is going to store
your credentials for the
lifetime of your application.
So the next set of questions
focuses on cross-code communication,
namely how to execute JavaScript from
Objective-C and how to execute
Objective-C from JavaScript.
So let's take a look
at the first direction,
executing JavaScript from Objective-C.
This is really simple to do.
It's just a method on UIWebView,
string by evaluating
JavaScript from string.
And here I'm passing in a function name,
myJSFunction.
This is actually a great best
practice to pass in a function
name instead of a very long,
hard-to-maintain string of JavaScript.
Also, you should always put your
JavaScript in a separate file.
Now when you're doing that,
make sure that the JavaScript files
in your application are copied,
not compiled.
This is just a matter of taking a look
at your application target and dragging
the appropriate resources from compile
sources up to copy bundle resources.
Lastly, don't try to execute
JavaScript before the view has loaded.
Your delegate will receive a
callback once the view has loaded
and it's safe to execute JavaScript,
"WebView did finish load."
The next scenario involves executing
Objective-C from JavaScript,
essentially hooking into native
functionality from a web user interface.
Now there's a couple
parts of this scenario.
You basically want to use
JavaScript to change the current
location to a custom URL,
use a delegate method to intercept the
page request and execute native code,
and then finally return no
to abandon the page request.
So let's take a look
at this in more detail.
The first step is to define
a sort of custom URL,
and here the URL is
http://vicki.com/capturephoto.
The next step is to use
JavaScript to initiate a page load.
Here in our Capture Photo function,
we're setting window.location
to our custom URL,
vickizap/capturephoto.
The final piece comes with
the UIWebView delegate should
start load with request.
In this method,
we're going to look at the
request that has been passed in,
and if host is equal to our string
"vickeysApp", we're going to look at the
last path component for that request,
and if it's equal to capturePhoto,
I'm going to execute native code to
initiate that sequence capturing a photo.
And then finally,
we're going to return no from this
method because we don't want to
actually load anything from this method.
So that covers the
first half of our talk:
Integrating Web Content into
Your Hybrid Application Using UIWebView
in the iPhone SDK.
Now let's move on to the
second part of our talk,
optimizing the web content
inside of that view.
So in this section,
we're primarily going to focus on
how to decrease memory footprint
and increase performance of the
web content inside of UIWebView.
To do that,
we're going to focus on three areas:
reducing the total number of images,
using CSS transforms, transitions,
and animations, and finally,
we're going to talk about
caching data locally to improve
responsiveness in your application.
So let's get started talking
about how to decrease the memory
footprint in your application by
reducing the total number of images.
So you might be thinking,
what's so bad about images in an
iPhone application that uses UIWebView?
Well, if we look at this image here,
we can see that its size on disk is 53K.
But that's actually the
encoded size on disk.
Once this image is decoded
and loaded into memory,
it becomes much bigger.
If we take the height, which is 320,
by the width, which is 480,
multiply it by 4 because this
image has RGB components,
this image is now taking
up over 600K in memory.
So this is pretty significant.
Anything that we can do to reduce
the total number of images in our
hybrid application is going to
reduce the overall memory footprint.
So one way to cut back on images
in your web interfaces is to use
what's called a generated image.
A generated image is one where
you specify the appearance in CSS,
and then WebKit,
the framework that does all
the layout and rendering for
Safari on iPhone and for UIWebView,
generates an image for you.
The result is seamlessly
displayed in the web page,
and by that I mean no additional
elements are added to the DOM,
and the computed style
is what you would expect.
So the first type of generated image that
I'd like to describe is a CSS gradient.
So we see gradients in multiple places
both on web pages and in user interfaces
in native applications on iPhone.
So here on the left we have the main web
page for the WebKit open source project,
and there's a gradient
background on this page.
And on the right we have
the stopwatch application.
And you can see gradients
on each of the buttons,
on each of the rows,
and on the main background
area that shows the time.
So to achieve a gradient
in a web interface,
what people typically do is
use the background property,
specify a background image,
and then repeat it in the
X direction to achieve a tiling
effect across the background.
If we use a CSS gradient instead,
the syntax looks like this.
We set the background
to a WebKit gradient.
The first parameter is the
type of gradient that this is.
We can have either a linear
or a radial gradient.
The next two parameters specify where
the gradient begins and where it ends.
So this gradient begins in the
upper left-hand corner and goes
down about 45% down the page,
almost halfway down the page.
And the last two parameters
tell us what color values we
interpolate between for the gradient.
So here we're starting with a
kind of green color and we're
fading our gradient out to white.
So here we've eliminated an
image in our web interface that
we're loading into UIWebView.
Here's one more example
of a radial gradient.
We see radial gradients in lots of
places in native iPhone applications.
So here on the startup screen
for E-Trade Mobile Pro,
we have this sort of spotlight effect.
And also for the Things application,
when items move to the logbook,
we see a similar spotlight effect
behind the prompt that comes up.
So now you can achieve the same sort of
effects in your web-based interfaces.
So you might be thinking, well,
just one small background
image on a gradient,
you know, how much can that really reduce
my overall memory footprint?
Well, CSS gradients can actually be
used in a number of places.
They can be used for background images,
border images, list style images,
for the content property,
and as you're going to see
over the next few slides,
CSS gradients can be used in conjunction
with many other types of CSS effects.
So one more note about gradients.
Sometimes it can be difficult to imagine
exactly what a gradient is going to
look like just by writing the code,
and sometimes the syntax can
be difficult to remember.
There's a great GUI tool online
at wessiv.com that you can use
to configure your gradients
and generate the code for you.
The next type of generated image that
I want to describe is a CSS mask.
Now, a mask allows you to overlay
the content with a pattern,
and then basically that content
is only going to show through
the opaque parts of that pattern.
So here I have this flower image,
and I could overlay it with a
pattern of an opaque circle.
And once that content is masked,
it's going to look like this.
The flower image is only going to show
through the opaque parts of the circle.
CSS masks have quite an involved syntax,
but the basic idea is that
CSS mask properties are analogous
to CSS background properties.
So where you have a background origin,
you could also have a WebKit mask origin.
Where you have a background image,
you could also have a WebKit mask image.
So let's take a look at some specific
syntax for our earlier example.
To add a mask to this
image programmatically,
we would just specify WebKitMaskBoxImage.
We have a URL that points
to our circleMask.png,
and then we have an X and
Y coordinate that tells us
how to position that circle.
And that's going to give
us an effect such as this.
Now this section is all about reducing
images in your web content within
UIWebView for your iPhone application,
but here we're still using an image,
circleMask.png.
Well we can eliminate that
image in one of two ways.
We can either use a
WebKit gradient as our mask image,
or we can use an SVG image.
The last type of generated
image is a CSS reflection.
And of course,
a reflection is just a replica
of the original object with its
own specific transform and mask.
A CSS reflection is specified through
the WebKit box reflect property.
The first parameter is the
direction of the reflection,
the second parameter is an offset,
and the third parameter is optional.
It's the mask box image.
So if we wanted to reflect this
image of the bumblebee below the
image and offset by 5 pixels,
we would just specify WebKit box
reflect below 5 pixels.
Now what we have here is a full
reflection of the original image.
And when people typically
add reflection to an object,
they want it to kind of fade
out to the background color,
or fade out in transparency.
So to do that, we're going to use that
last optional parameter,
WebKit Mask Box Image.
And for that parameter,
we're going to specify a gradient.
So here we have
WebKit Box Reflect below 5 pixels.
And then our final
parameter is a gradient,
a linear gradient,
that goes from the left
top to the left bottom.
And we fade from transparent to white.
So since this gradient is reflected,
it's going to be flipped and then applied
to the reflection to give you exactly
the effect that you're looking for.
So let's take a look at the real-world
impact of using generated images instead
of static images in our application.
So let's say I have a
slideshow application,
and in one mode I show this
sort of grid of images,
but in the slideshow mode I want
to show an image with a reflection.
One option is to create each image
with a reflection in an image editor,
and another is to use CSS Reflections.
Now if I have a grid
of let's say 12 images,
I did this test myself
in a real world scenario,
and if I generated an additional
image in an image editor that showed
a reflection for a slideshow mode,
each additional image generated
about 300K of additional memory.
So if I eliminate those extra images
and use CSS Reflections instead,
that will save over 3.5 megabytes
in my application memory footprint.
So another place where people
typically use an image when they
don't have to is for drawing buttons.
Let's take a look at what
it takes to build a really
great button in HTML and CSS.
There are two classes of
CSS properties that we're going to
look at for building this button.
The first has to do with appearance,
and the second deals with behavior.
So I decided that the button
that I wanted to create today
was this Delete Note button
inside the Notes application.
And this is just a screenshot
of that application with the
Delete Note button showing.
I started out by mocking this
up inside of Safari on iPhone.
And I started with all of the
CSS properties that you would
typically associate with a button.
We have the color and
the background color,
which is red,
a border and a border color.
We have the button sizing.
We've centered the text both
horizontally and vertically.
And also we've set some
text attributes here.
The font size, the font family on
iPhone is Helvetica Noi,
and the font weight is bold.
So how do we take this button from a
plain looking button to a button that
looks really great and native on iPhone?
The first thing that we're going to do
is round the corners on this button.
And we do that using a CSS property,
WebKitBorderRadius.
Here we're specifying a border
radius of 10 pixels to round
the corners on our button.
The next two properties
have to do with shadow.
These are a little bit subtle,
but if you look closely,
you can see a slight shadow
behind the text on the button,
and then also you see a gray
shadow beneath the button.
So the first shadow,
the one beneath the button,
is specified with WebKit box shadow.
The first two parameters
are an X and Y offset.
We want this shadow offset zero
pixels in the X direction and
two pixels in the Y direction.
And we want the color of this
shadow to be a solid gray.
So that gives us that kind of
gray line beneath the button.
To add the shading behind the text,
we use the text shadow property.
Again, the first two parameters
are an X and Y offset,
and I've set both of those to zero
here because I want just a general
shadow behind all of the text.
I'm setting a blur radius of 8 pixels,
and I'm setting the color of
this text shadow to black.
The last step is to add a
gradient to this button.
So here we're specifying a white
gradient that changes transparency as
it interpolates from the top of the
button down to the bottom of the button.
So this is a linear gradient that
travels the height of the button,
and it goes from 50%
transparency to 30% transparency,
and then from full transparency
to 20% transparency.
So this gives us a white overlay
on the button that allows the red
color beneath to show through.
And this is the final result.
Again, mocked up in Safari on iPhone.
So this is a really great looking button,
but we also want it to behave
like a button on iPhone.
To do that, we're going to set a few
additional properties.
If you touch this button,
the first thing that you're
going to see is this sort of
background color on the text.
And we want to get rid of that.
And we can do that by setting WebKit tap
highlight color to transparent.
That will make that gray background
color around the text disappear.
The next thing that you'll see if
you continue touching and holding on
this button is the open copy panel.
And we want to disable this as well.
So we're going to set
WebKit touch call out to none.
Once you disable the touch callout,
the last thing that you're going
to see is the copy/paste bubble.
And we want to disable that
for our button as well,
because we don't want people to be able
to copy the text off of this button.
To do that,
we're going to set WebKit user
select to none to disable
the cut/copy/paste dialog.
The last thing that we want to
do to this button is give it
an enabled and disabled state.
Typically,
when you touch a button on iPhone,
they change color.
So here,
we're going to listen for two events,
onTouchStart and onTouchEnd,
and we're going to call two functions,
enable or disable, for the button.
The enable and disable
functions are really simple.
We're just going to change the
background color of the button
when those functions are called.
So here I'm setting the background
color to blue so that you can
see the difference very clearly.
So when I touch this button,
it's going to look like this.
And when I lift my
finger off this button,
the color will return to red.
So what's the real-world impact
of getting rid of images for
your buttons and replacing
them with CSS-based buttons?
Well, I did some measurements,
and if I had 10 buttons
in my application,
and I had two versions
of each of those buttons,
an enabled version and
a disabled version,
that added up to about 100K per button.
Replacing these images with buttons
that are made of HTML and CSS saves
me almost 2 megabytes in the overall
memory footprint for my application.
We went over the HTML and CSS that
you would use to generate a delete
note button in the Notes application,
but Dashcode also has some
built-in templates that show some
great examples of how to make
additional HTML and CSS buttons.
So you could just load one of these
up in Safari on the desktop and
inspect the element to see what
CSS is used for a particular button
in one of these built-in templates.
So far we've talked primarily about
reducing the number of images in your
web content to decrease the overall
memory footprint for your application.
But I want to point out that reducing
the number of images in your app
will also improve responsiveness.
So when images are
fetched over the network,
there's very high latency involved
when your device is fetching
data over the cellular network.
Latency on a cellular network
is much higher than Wi-Fi.
It's about 500 milliseconds as
opposed to 100 milliseconds.
So as you fetch more and
more additional resources,
these little snippets of latency
can really add up and add to
the overall page load time.
We did a real-world example where we
loaded two websites in Safari on iPhone.
We looked at Apple.com
versus Microsoft.com.
Now, Apple.com had an overall larger
sort of memory footprint,
610K versus 494K for Microsoft.com.
However, Apple.com had a smaller
number of resources,
31 versus 55 for Microsoft.com.
So this meant that Apple.com had fewer,
larger resources.
When we loaded these two pages over
Edge on iPhone and over 3G on iPhone,
we found that Apple.com,
with a smaller number of resources
but higher overall memory footprint,
actually loaded two to three
times faster than Microsoft.com.
So as you can see,
reducing the number of images in
your application not only will have a
positive impact on memory footprint,
but also on page load time.
Now let's talk about
using CSS transforms,
transitions,
and animations for decreasing the
memory footprint in your application
and increasing performance.
So if you're a website developer,
your website has to work and
be compatible with a number
of different web browsers.
Your website has to work with Safari,
Safari on iPhone, Firefox,
and maybe even Internet Explorer 6.
So the way that many web developers
deal with compatibility issues
is to use a JavaScript framework.
Frameworks often kind of abstract
away browser incompatibilities and
allow you to focus on development.
However, if you're developing
content for UIWebView,
the only browser that you really
need to be compatible with is Safari,
and the only layout engine that you
need to be compatible with is WebKit.
Again, the iTunes Music Store is a great
example of a native application that uses
WebKit to layout most of its content.
Here in this main view,
we're using many advanced techniques
to optimize this content for WebKit.
So if you're developing
content for UIWebView,
you can do the same thing.
Since you don't have to be compatible
with other browser engines,
you can use whatever tools are at
your disposal to deliver the best
experience possible to your users.
So one way that you can do this is to
use CSS transitions and animations.
So let's benchmark the performance
of a JavaScript library
versus a CSS transition.
So the animation that we're
going to look at is basically
clicking on this paragraph and
watching the text just fade away.
So something like this.
Now the JavaScript library that we used
to achieve this animation was jQuery.
And there's nothing at all
inherently wrong with jQuery.
In fact, it's a very useful tool
for many web developers.
The high memory overhead comes
in loading and parsing this file,
which is 120K.
Reading and parsing and
building the function map for
this file all takes memory.
If we use a CSS transition instead,
we're basically adding one line
of CSS and one line of JavaScript.
And this is going to
save us over 3 megabytes.
So let's take a look at what it takes
to build some of these animations
with CSS transitions and animations.
So one of the building blocks
for CSS transitions and
animations is CSS transforms.
And CSS transforms allow us to translate,
rotate, scale, or skew any HTML element.
So if I wanted to take
this photo and flip it,
I would apply the CSS property
WebKitTransform with the
value rotate of 180 degrees.
I could also scale this photograph
up by 25% and move it 100 pixels
in the X direction by adding two
additional values to WebKit Transform:
scale by 1.25 and
translate X by 100 pixels.
So this is a basic
example of 2D transforms,
but there's also 3D transforms available.
We use the same property,
WebKit Transform,
but there are additional values:
Translate 3D, Rotate X, Rotate Y,
and Rotate 3D, Scale 3D, or Matrix 3D,
which allows you to define your
own 3D matrix for transformation.
We're not going to go too
in-depth on CSS 3D transforms,
but you can find some great
examples at the Safari Dev Center.
The first is called Poster Circle,
and it's sort of three rings of rotating
posters stacked one on top of another.
And the second is called Fingertips,
which provides a sort of wheel navigation
for looking at different videos.
As I said, both of these are available as
sample code at the Safari Dev Center,
which is developer.apple.com/safari.
The first example is
called Poster Circle,
and the second one is called Fingertips.
So let's move on to CSS transitions.
CSS transitions are sort
of an automatic animation,
meaning that you specify the initial
and final value of the animation,
and WebKit takes care of rendering
all of the frames between
that initial and final value.
The animation executes
when the values change,
and the way that you change those
values is through JavaScript.
So let's take a look at an example.
So here we have our mini image again,
and we have some CSS properties
defined for this image.
We're starting with a border of 6 pixels,
solid white.
And for the WebKit transform property,
we're specifying an initial
state where the scale is 1.0
and the rotation is 0 degrees.
So if we want to scale this image
up by 25% and rotate it by 180
degrees showing an animation,
our final state is going to
be WebKit transform scale
1.25 and rotate 180 degrees.
So here we're going from an
initial state to a final state.
Also in the mini class declaration,
you'll notice that we have
WebKitTransitionProperty
equal to WebKitTransform.
This tells WebKit that WebKitTransform
is the property that you want to animate.
We also have WebKit transition
duration to tell WebKit that we
want the animation to take place
over a period of two seconds.
So to trigger this animation from the
beginning state to the final state,
we're going to use JavaScript.
And basically,
all we're going to do is get the element,
look at the class name,
and if it's equal to "mini", we're
going to change it to "mini move".
If it's equal to "mini move", we're
going to change it back to "mini".
Doing so is going to trigger an
animation that looks something like this.
So here we're just kind of flipping the
image and scaling it up by 25%, but we
can make this a little more complicated.
Here in our mini class declaration,
again we have the border,
and here we've added opacity of 0.0.
So this image is going
to start out invisible.
Our initial value for WebKit transform
is scaled down by 50% and
again rotated by 0 degrees.
And here for WebKit transition property,
we're telling WebKit that we
want to animate two properties.
We want to animate opacity and
also the WebKit transform property.
For the duration,
we want the opacity animation
to happen over 1.3 seconds,
and we want the animation of
the WebKit transform property
to happen over 1.5 seconds.
In our Move class,
we're setting the opacity to 1.0,
and our WebKit transform value
scales the image up by 25%
and rotates it by 360 degrees.
Again, we're going to interpolate between
these two states and trigger the
animation through JavaScript.
And this animation is going
to look something like this.
So I mentioned that you specify an
initial state and a final state,
and WebKit takes care of rendering
all of the frames in between.
But you do have some control over
the acceleration curve for your
animation via the CSS property
WebKitTransitionTimingFunction.
So there are several values that
you can supply to this property.
They're basically ease, linear, ease in,
ease out, ease in out,
or you can supply your
own cubic Bezier curve.
Finally, if you want to delay the
start of a CSS transition,
you can use the
WebKitTransitionDelay property.
If you specify one second, for example,
for this property,
you'll have a delay of one second after
you change the values using JavaScript.
So just to circle back to our original
example where we looked at the real-world
impact of using a CSS transition
versus a JavaScript library,
here was the code that we used in
JavaScript to trigger this animation.
And here is the code
for the CSS transition.
We're basically setting the
WebKit transition property
we're using shorthand here.
We're saying that opacity is
the property that we want to
animate over 600 milliseconds
with a linear acceleration curve.
Then our JavaScript just sets the
opacity of the paragraph to zero,
triggering the animation.
CSS keyframe animations give you all
of the advantages of CSS transitions
and they give you fine-grained
control over the keyframes,
control over the repeat
count and behavior,
and also there are DOM events
associated with CSS animations.
So let's dive right into an example.
If we pretend that the entire
screen here is a web page,
and we have a leaf kind of falling down
the right-hand side of this web page,
how would we define this
using a CSS animation?
Well, the first thing that we would
do is define the animation
using the @WebKitKeyframes rule.
Here we've named our animation
"fall," and we're saying that
the animation starts 50 pixels
off-screen in the Y direction.
and goes all the way down to 600 pixels
down the screen in the Y direction.
So we're starting off screen
and moving the leaf down the
right-hand side of the page.
To apply this animation,
we just set fall as the value for
the CSS property WebKitAnimationName
on our leaf class here.
We're going to specify an
animation duration of 10 seconds.
We want this animation
to iterate forever,
so we're going to set
WebKitAnimationIterationCount
to infinite.
And finally, we want this animation to
follow a linear timing function.
So we're going to set
WebKitAnimationTimingFunction to linear.
And here we have the leaf kind of falling
down the right side of the screen and
disappearing at the end of its path.
So what if we want to add an animation
here so that instead of disappearing,
the leaf kind of fades out as
it nears the end of its path?
Well, we can do this by defining
an additional animation,
again using the @WebKitKeyframes rule.
This animation is named Fade,
and we're saying that we want
the opacity to be 1 for the
first 75% of the animation.
And then for the last
25% of the animation,
we want the opacity to fade from 1 to 0,
so we want the leaf to disappear.
Again on our Leaf class,
we're going to specify two animations
here for WebKit animation name,
Fall and Fade.
We want them both to take 10
seconds and iterate forever.
And we want the Fall animation to follow
a linear timing function where we want
the Fade animation to kind of ease in.
So as you can see,
the leaf kind of falls down
the right side of the page,
and for the last 25% of its path,
the opacity fades from 1 to 0,
and the leaf disappears.
I mentioned that there were DOM events
associated with CSS animations,
and these are WebKitAnimationStart,
WebKitAnimationIteration,
and WebKitAnimationEnd.
And these allow you to know
when an animation starts,
iterates, or ended.
You can listen for these events just
like you would any other DOM event.
Here we're listening for an animation
end event directly on the element.
And when that animation ends,
we're going to set the display to none.
There's one more important thing to note
about CSS transitions and animations,
and that is that they
are hardware-accelerated.
Since they're hardware-accelerated,
you will never, ever,
ever achieve the same performance
with a JavaScript animation
that you could achieve with
a CSS transition or animation.
I actually have a demo to
show you the difference in the
performance of JavaScript animation
versus a CSS animation.
Let's take a look at the differences
between these two approaches.
Let's take a look at a leaf
animation in a web page.
In the first case,
we'll be using JavaScript to
animate the leaves,
and in the second case,
we'll be using CSS animations.
So here's the first case,
animating with JavaScript.
This is the best performance that we
could get animating with JavaScript,
but if you look closely,
you can see that the leaves are
kind of falling down the page with
a little bit of a jagged motion.
Also, the leaf animation that we
see here is really simple.
The leaves are just appearing at the top
of the page and falling straight down,
disappearing off the
bottom edge of the screen.
Now let's take a look at
the CSS animation example.
Here we see we have a number
of leaves on screen at once and
the animation is totally smooth.
Also, the animation on each leaf is much
more complicated than the animation we
were able to achieve with JavaScript.
Each leaf as it falls kind
of arcs back and forth,
and as each leaf approaches
the bottom of the screen,
the opacity fades out
and each leaf disappears.
So as you can see,
the performance and functionality
that we were able to achieve using
CSS animations was far superior to
what we were able to do animating these
leaves conventionally with JavaScript.
So let's take a look at one
final piece of functionality,
how to improve responsiveness in your
application by caching data locally.
So often I've used web applications,
for instance, a to-do list application.
And when I commit that to-do item,
it takes several seconds for the
data to be stored up in the cloud,
and then for the packet to
make the round trip and for the
user interface to be updated.
That user interface could be much
more responsive if we eliminated the
network and stored that data locally.
So you can enable this
functionality using the HTML 5
database storage feature.
Now this is a standards-based
approach to local database storage,
meaning that it's part of HTML 5
and will probably be adopted by
other browsers in the future.
It's based off of real-world SQL,
so all of the SQL conventions that you're
used to are here and part of this API.
This API is asynchronous
and callback-based,
meaning that your UI will
never be locked up,
waiting for a transition to complete.
And finally,
HTML 5 database storage operates
on origin-based security,
meaning that other websites
cannot access your website's data,
and your website cannot access
the data of a different website.
Other advantages are reduced complexity.
You can store your data directly
in the database instead of
having to sync it to the cloud.
We've already talked about
improved performance,
but reducing the number of
network operations on iPhone
improves overall battery life,
and of course, improves responsiveness.
And finally,
if you're storing the data locally,
you can have access to that data even if
there's no network connection available.
We're going to discuss three
aspects of the HTML5 SQL API for
client-side databases.
First, we're going to talk about what
it takes to create a database.
After that, we'll talk about executing
transactions and finally,
handling callbacks.
So creating or opening a
database is actually very simple.
The first thing that you're going
to do is test to see if the current
browser supports database functionality.
And we do this by checking
window.opendatabase.
If this functionality exists,
we're going to go ahead
and set up a few variables.
So here we've passed a name, a version,
a display name, and an expected size to
the Open Database method.
But really the only parameter that
is strictly required is the name.
You can just set the
other parameters to null.
So once you have opened a database,
the next thing that you're
going to want to do is execute
transactions on this database.
For those of you familiar
with database programming,
this is probably very familiar to you.
But for those of you who aren't,
a transaction is basically an atomic unit
of work that cannot partially succeed.
Basically, any changes made during a
transaction are rolled back if any
part of that transaction fails.
When you start to think about
deeply rooted relational databases,
this model makes a lot of sense.
You wouldn't want half of
your data to be modified.
All queries that are part of the HTML5
SQL API must be part of a transaction.
So here's what a transaction looks like.
I basically create a string of SQL and
then pass that string of SQL to the
execute SQL method on the transaction.
There are two types of callbacks
that are part of this API:
transaction callbacks
and query callbacks.
Transaction callbacks are related
to the entire transaction.
There are two types of
transaction callbacks:
completion callbacks and error callbacks.
Completion callbacks allow you to
detect when a transaction has completed,
and the error callbacks allow you to
handle error messages and codes that
you might want to display to the user.
The second type of callback
is a query callback.
A query callback is related
to the individual queries
within the transaction.
There are two types of query callbacks:
data callbacks,
which allow you to manipulate the
data that was returned from a query,
and error callbacks,
which allow for optional
queries within a transaction.
Basically,
if a query within a transaction fails,
you can choose to proceed
with the transaction anyway.
If no error callback is
specified for each query,
all errors are assumed fatal
and the entire transaction is
rolled back to the beginning.
So there's a great example
available online at webkit.org
that you can take a look at to get
started with the HTML5 SQL API.
This is a basic sticky notes application.
When you click the New Note button,
a new sticky note appears,
and then you can edit the contents of
that note or move it around on screen.
The contents and the position of the
note are stored in a local database.
Here we've opened up the Web Inspector in
Safari on the Desktop to examine
the contents of this database.
Here we see the content of each note,
a timestamp, and its position on screen.
The integrated tools in Safari on the
Desktop provide a great environment for
building and debugging your application.
So if I select the database
name in the left-hand panel,
this prompt appears.
From here,
I can execute arbitrary SQL statements
on the selected database to build
or even debug my application.
This view also includes tab completion,
which is useful in any debugging
or development scenario.
So that covers the second
half of our presentation:
Optimizing the Web Content Inside of
UIWebView for a Reduced Memory Footprint
and Improved Performance.
To recap what we've covered today,
we started out by talking about some of
the advantages of hybrid applications.
After that,
we addressed some of the commonly
asked questions around UIWebView.
And finally,
we went in-depth on optimizing
the content inside of UIWebView,
using CSS to decrease the overall
image count in our web interfaces,
replacing JavaScript animations
with CSS transforms,
transitions, and animations,
and using local data storage
to improve responsiveness in
the UI of your web interface.
You can find documentation
and sample code for Safari at
the Safari Dev Center at
developer.apple.com/safari.
And of course,
documentation for the iPhone SDK,
including UIWebView,
is available at the iPhone Dev Center,
developer.apple.com/iphone.
If you have any additional questions,
feel free to email me
directly at vicki@apple.com.
Thanks for watching today,
and I can't wait to see how you integrate
web content into your iPhone application.